---
title: The First Diving Experience
summary: "The air runs easily through the regulator to fill my lungs; it’s cold and dry. I’m just one meter below surface but even so, it takes some minutes before I start to feel comfortable breathing through the regulator. I have been told to breath deep and slow and I do my best to calm down. "
tags: article
author: Daniel Weidenmark
image: first-diving-experience.jpg
---
# The First Diving Experience

The air runs easily through the regulator to fill my lungs; it’s cold and dry. I’m just one meter below surface but even so, it takes some minutes before I start to feel comfortable breathing through the regulator. I have been told to breath deep and slow and I do my best to calm down. 

I’m attending a course arranged by NUS (National university of Singapore) dive club that will make me a certified Open Water SCUBA Diver. This is the first grade of many available courses provided by PADI, the world largest network of dive educators. Two theory sessions are followed by a first practical training in NUS’s swimming pool. We then go for a weekend to Tioman Island in Malaysia for training dives under real conditions. 

We are about 15 students on the boat leaving Tioman Island early in the morning to reach our first dive spot. On the way the equipment is set up and controlled; the air should be fresh, the seals should be tight and the hoses should be tested. Well in water I’m the first to descend. This first dive is five meters and will be a repetition of the training earlier done in the swimming pool. But there’s one major difference ‒ now I can’t just raise my head above water if something goes wrong. 

The first minutes are a bit stressful; it’s hard to control the buoyancy so that I neither rise to the surface nor sink too fast. The bubbles when I breathe swirl around my mask and in the beginning I completely forget everything about deep and slow breaths, but then I slowly start to regain control. Everything is about to feel comfortable and prepared for any troubles. We are training to take the masks on and off and to help each other if someone runs out of air. Everything under water gets more complicated due to the fact that we can’t talk to each other. We have to rely on signs and motions. After nearly one hour it’s time to ascend back to surface. At this time I have started to get a bit cold even if I have my wetsuit and the temperature shows 29°C. There is also a slight feeling of sea sickness since it’s hard to really feel what’s up and down when floating around neutrally buoyant in the middle of the blue. 

Even if diving is kind of a slow activity it’s rather exhausting; maybe it’s the pressure or maybe just all the new impressions. Anyway we go back to shore for a well needed lunch break. The following two dives in the afternoon include emergency ascend and finning training. Ascending from a deep dive to fast can be really dangerous and the diver’s rule number one is to never hold your breath. If you do so during ascension, your lungs will expand as the surrounding pressure decreases and they risk exploding. There is also a risk that the extra nitrogen in your blood expands and gets trapped in your veins, before it has time to leave the bloodstream. Therefore the training is done from just a few meters. By giving a constant aaa sound through the regulator the air can expand out of the lungs while performing emergency ascends. 

The evening comes and I get another point of why people get addicted to diving. It’s not just about the dive itself but also about the stories and exchange of experiences that follow. Some groups have seen sea turtles and another tells about the barracudas by the shipwreck. The whole atmosphere from sitting with new friends with similar interests on a beach where just the waves from the sea can be heard is wonderful ‒ and completely different from the city life in Singapore.

Day two rises and for this day we have saved the deep dive that has to be included to get the certificate. We are going to try the maximum depth for Open Water divers of eighteen meters. Just before descending it feels a bit scary. Eighteen meter is really deep and when ascending from that depth a safety stop is needed to get the nitrogen in your bloodstream to leave as the pressure drops. As mentioned, a quick ascend can be fatal. Well under water though, the calmness is back. For me as a diver, the feeling at this depth is about the same, except for the sight. This day the visibility at this particular place is really poor but our educators have good knowledge about the area. Actually it’s exciting to swim around just seeing a few meters; in such conditions you feel extra trust to the friends around you. Only they can help you if something goes wrong. At this stage most of us do feel comfortable with the equipment and conditions though. It’s no longer a problem to just let the regulator out of mouth to have a nice picture. 

So far the dive spots have been most like training places but we have now gained good control in the water and are ready to explore the real reefs. The final dive is really amazing; the fish and corals are beautiful and the colors are really intense. We see triggerfish, sea turtles and anemones with clown fish, or “Nemos” that seems to be the new name. 

My previous experiences of diving have only been snorkeling. Doing that you can usually see most of the beautiful life under surface but to come close and float around weightless is something really special that enhance the experience. Attending this course and getting the certificate has given me new opportunities ‒ especially here in Southeast Asia where there are several beautiful diving resorts. So now, Borneo is next to be explored.