---
title: The Golden Town of Mathematics
summary: "Hong Kong – top five in the categories mathematics and science ever since the first PISA test was launched in 2000. The result speaks for itself and the question is no longer weather Hong Kong is a leading centre for learning mathematics or not, the question is why. An interview with two local students, both studying to become math teachers, will hopefully shed some light on the query."
tags: article
author: Maja Fahlén
image: golden-town-of-mathematics.jpg
---

# The Golden Town of Mathematics
Hong Kong – top five in the categories mathematics and science ever since the first PISA test was launched in 2000. The result speaks for itself and the question is no longer weather Hong Kong is a leading centre for learning mathematics or not, the question is why. An interview with two local students, both studying to become math teachers, will hopefully shed some light on the query.

The PISA test is an international measurement, aiming to evaluate educational systems by testing the skills and knowledge of 15-year-old students. The most recent test result is dated from 2012 when around 510,000 students, from 65 different economies, participated in the survey which consists of three main categories: reading, mathematics and science. In the last assessment, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore were top three in all of these categories. So how come the East Asian countries are doing so well in these kind of tests? The math teacher students, Winnie and Yoyo, explain that there are three main features that make the education in Hong Kong stand out in comparison with the European.

First of all is it the ambition among the students; already from an early age do school and studies play an important role in children’s everyday life. The parents are generally very engaged and interested in their children’s learning progress, always wanting to know the last exam results and pushing them to do their homework as soon as they come home. Children here seem to get raised with the feeling of school being important.

Not only the parents, but the school system itself also plays an important role in forming the children’s attitude towards the studies. The students are graded already from primary school, where high grades are needed in order to attend the secondary schools with high national ranking; all secondary schools are divided into three bands, with band one being considered as the best of them. With this early grading system, the students immediately get to see the benefits of working hard and how their performance in class actually impacts their lives. All of this contributes to a learning environment where the large majority of students find studies important and necessary.

“Even though my parents weren’t too tough on me, I felt like all other students were working incredibly hard on their studies – so I just had to pay the same effort in order to keep up with them”.

That the students here are hard-working can easily be seen; walking down the streets of Mongkok you spot advertisement for tutorial classes everywhere and the demand seems endless. Every class seats around 100 students who all have gathered there during their spare time to get some extra lectures within the subjects they find hard. According to a study from 2005, as many as 70% of all upper secondary school students attend tutorial classes, and the trend seems to increase. Another example of how you’ll see the ambition is by trying to find a place to sit in any of the school libraries. It’s impossible, whether the finals are close or the courses just started. And no, it’s not because they are lacking tables and chairs there.

The second big difference between the school system here and in Europe is the high focus on exams. While the goal in Sweden, along with other European countries, is for students to learn basic concepts and theories in mathematics the goal here is mainly problem solving. The math lessons are often an hour of counting problems from the course literature, with a homework for every class. As for the students who finish quickly, there are always more books with new exercises of the same kind to find in the bookstore. You simply never run out of problems to solve in mathematics. One of the reasons for this exam-oriented education is that the major way into a university is a public exam. In her future profession as a math teacher Winnie hopes to give her student a well balanced mix of this exam-oriented education along with a good portion of motivation.

“In Hong Kong there is a really high concern about the exams since the students need the exam grades for further studies. But for me it is also important to motivate the students. If they don’t find the subject interesting, or if I haven’t expressed it interesting, the students won’t pay attention to my lesson. So I think the motivation is just as important as the exams for learning mathematics.”

The enthusiasm that shines through the girls as they speak about their future profession leads us to the final thing that makes Hong Kong students so good in mathematics: good teachers. Being a teacher is considered as a good and noble job, with a reasonable salary that increases with experience. With these conditions Hong Kong succeeds to attract great students with a burning interest for the teaching profession. 

After getting a slightly deeper insight into why Hong Kong is doing so great in the international surveys of mathematics, you cannot do anything but admire these hard-working students. Their effort really is remarkable. My only concern is that the young students might miss out on all other things there are to do while they sit with their nose in the books. Both Winnie and Yoyo express that it was a relief to start collage, where you finally don’t have to worry too much about the grades anymore and have time to do a lot more social activities than before. So Hong Kong is doing great, but at what cost? That is a completely different question.