Food Paradise 
Often referred to as The Little Red Dot, Singapore is a master in the art of multi-cuisine despite its small size. Southeast Asian guidebooks often rank Singaporean food as one of the top experiences in the region. It’s no wonder though; through the history Indian, Chinese, Malay and Indonesian cuisine have mixed into a characteristic Singaporean fusion of delicious delights. Later influences from western cuisine, such as Portuguese and British, also left its marks.
Food is a forever interesting topic of conversation and a crucial part of the Singaporean identity. The multi-cuisine unifies people across cultural borders. It is very common to see Indian chefs use Malay spices in their dishes and Chinese chefs use Indian spices. Singaporeans often eat at hawker centres rather than at home. A hawker centre is a type of food court consisting of several food stalls.  These centres are famous for having a wide range of dishes for a very cheap price. You can find Hawker centres wherever you go, especially in the heartlands. A heartland is a small district consisting of government owned flats; where you also find everything you need in everyday life. 
Singapore’s small area in combination with the high population density makes it difficult to satisfy the grocery demand. Therefore almost all grocery is imported, making the prices for cooking your own food almost as expensive as eating at the hawker centres. 
The Chinese cuisine found in Singapore offers dishes from different regions of China. From the Cantonese cuisine you can enjoy dim sum, roasted meat and double-boiled soups. The famous Singaporean dish chicken rice has its roots in the Hainan province and yong tau fu is from the Hakka region. Many Chinese dishes are based on different kind of noodles, for example char kway teow which contains flat rice noodles fried in soy sauce with prawns, shrimp paste, cockles, bean sprouts, and chopped Chinese chives. Hokkien mee is a dish consisting of stir-fried egg noodles and rice noodles and in the Singaporean version it usually comes with egg and pork slices, squid and prawns. It is served with vegetables, sambal, lime juice and lard pieces. 
In the Malay cuisine you will find food being spicy at the same time as the coconut milk makes the spiciness bearable. A famous dish is nasi lemak; a rice dish cooked in coconut milk and pandan leaves served with a spicy sambal and fried anchovies. The Singaporean version can also be served with fried drumstick, chicken franks, fish cake and curried vegetables. From the Indonesia cuisine the famous dish is nasi goreng, which simply means fried pre-cooked rice spiced with sweet soy sauce, shallot, garlic, tamarind and chilli. It often comes with sides such as egg, prawns and chicken.
The Peranakan cuisine is a mix between Malay and Chinese cuisine and its most famous dish is laksa: a spicy noodle soup. Laksa is ranked as the 7th out of the 50 most delicious foods in the world, so it should not be missed. Another common cross cultural dish is Mee goreng; stir fried yellow egg noodles with ghee, tomato sauce, egg and chilli mixed with a variety of meats.
If you look for Indian food in Singapore, you will find both southern and northern cuisine. From the southern you can find crispy dosa, spicy curries and seafood, while from the northern you find tandoori dishes, naan breads and milder curries. There is also the local Indian-Muslim cuisine where you find the delicious murtabak, roti pratas and nasi biriyani. 
In Singapore you will mostly find a fork and spoon to use for eating your meal, so forget about the knife! So how will you cut the food? It’s simple, use the spoon! As a country being surrounded by sea, sea food is also a common treat. Popular dishes are sambal stingray, black pepper crab and oyster omelette. 
Ordering coffee and tea in English is not the norm; actually, coffee and tea are usually ordered in Singlish terms at the local hawker centres. It is very convenient to learn what your favourite coffee type is called in Singlish.
What are the popular beverages in Singapore though? When it comes to tea you have teh tarik. The name means pulled tea and refers to the preparation in which the tea is being tossed between two cups in order to create a thick froth. You can also find bubble tea which basically is jelly like boba balls added to black tea with milk. When it comes to alcoholic beverages you have the famous Tiger beer, which is one of the less expensive alcohol alternatives in Singapore.
A wide variety of fruits are available all around the year, but the most famous one is definitely the durian. Well-known for its characteristic smell, every bus, underground-station, hotel, and public place strictly forbid carrying durians inside. Still, the fruit is often referred to as the king of fruits by many people and considered a delicacy. The architecture of the Esplanade theatre was in fact inspired by the durian fruit.
So if you have munched through a delicate meal and had your coffee at a Hawker centre, what can you find for dessert? The dessert selection is almost as wide as the main dish selection. Many desserts are based on beans, jelly and fruit. Also the dishes do not necessarily have to be sweet to be considered as desserts. Singaporeans love their ice desserts; most famous are chendol and ice kachang. Chendol is a drink based on coconut milk consisting of green jelly noodles, shaved ice and palm sugar. It may also include red beans, glutinous rice, grass jelly and creamed corn. Ice kachang is a tall icy dessert coming in bright colours and with a mix of fruit and dressings. It often contains red beans, sweet corn, grass jelly and cubes of agar agar. The mountain of shaved ice and fruit is finally topped with evaporated milk, coconut milk, red rose syrup and sarsi syrup making it a colourful sight. 
Whatever kind of food and dining you’re looking for, Singapore has it all: expensive, cheap, Asian, western and everything in between. Singapore is without question the paradise for gastronomes. Visiting Singapore, you will find many more local dishes than mentioned in this article and discovering those should be a part of the Singaporean experience, shouldn’t it? 


